{subsection} radex03.in : Single Event Upset in a 3D MOSFET 

Requires: DevEdit 3D/Device 3D
{newline}
Minimum Versions: Atlas 5.20.2.R

This example demonstrates simulation of the effects of different angles
of incidence of an SEU in a MOSFET structure. The MOSFET structure is
constructed using DevEdit 3D. The structure is then passed to Atlas for
electrical testing. The input file consists of the following parts:

{bullet} Construction of the device in DevEdit 3D
{newline}
{bullet} SEU simulation in Atlas: particle with normal incidence
{newline}
{bullet} SEU simulation in Atlas: particle with oblique incidence

Atlas contains many features to enable the simulation of Single Event Upset
(SEU) phenomena. Models for charge generation exist both in 2D, 3D and quasi-3D
cylindrical coordinates. It is also possible for the users to add their own
position and time dependent charge generation using the C-Interpreter and
incorporate these into Atlas simulations.

The first stage of the input file constructs the MOSFET geometry,
material regions, doping profiles, electrodes, and subsequently generates the mesh
in 3D. This is perfromed in DevEdit 3D by drawing the device regions in
interactive mode, and specifying 3D doping distributions. The mesh was
generated automatically by specifying basic mesh parameters and
constraints with subsequent refinement based on the doping
distribution. 

DevEdit 3D generates 2 types of files: DevEdit 3D input file and the
structure file. The first can be run in the DeckBuild to produce the
corresponding structure file and is included here as the first portion
of the input file. The second can be read in directly by Atlas in the
MESH statement. Note that the DevEdit 3D input file can be edited as any
other input file.  It is straightforward to change type and value of
the doping associated with each region or resize regions.  More
importantly DevEdit 3D input files can also be read directly into the
graphical user interface of DevEdit 3D to provide all the menu options
used to construct the structure.

The Atlas simulation begins by reading the structure from
DevEdit 3D.  DeckBuild provides an autointerface between DevEdit 3D and Atlas so
that the structure produced by DevEdit 3D is transferred to Atlas without
having to indicate the 
{bold} mesh 
statement (commented out in this example).
Without the automatic DevEdit 3D/Atlas interface under DeckBuild the MESH
statement is needed to load the structure and the mesh.

The first active statements in the Atlas portion of the input file are contact
and model definitions. In the 
{bold} contact 
statement, the workfunction is specified
for the gate contact to reflect the properties of polysilicon. The set of 
physical models used in the simulation includes Shockley-Read-Hall and Auger
recombination as well as the CVT mobility model accounting for doping, parallel and
transverse electric field mobility dependencies. The 
{bold} material 
statement and its
parameters are not defined in the input file implying that the default values 
for silicon are used. A two-carrier solution of the problem is indicated through
the parameter 
{bold} carrier=2 
in the 
{bold} method 
statement. However, this parameter is
omitted here since it represents the default setting.

In practical applications, while simulating the latched state of a
transistor in a memory cell, a large lumped resistor must be
attached to the drain since the latter is in the floating state. This
should adequately represent the MOSFET in either a high or low state that
may be used in the SRAM cell. However, this lies beyond the scope of the
example considered here. The purpose of this example is to
demonstrate general capabilities in simulating the SEU by analyzing the
reaction of the device in the off state to the charge generation of the
SEU.

The simulation is first performed to obtain the condition of the
structure prior to the particle hit. This condition is with the drain
voltage of 5V, and all other electrodes grounded. This condition of the
structure is saved in a solution file for the
use in the second atlas run.
 
The parameters of the charge track are specified in the 
{bold}singleeventupset 
 statement.
The general description of the SEU physical model employed in Atlas 3D mode
as well as the description of all of the parameters for specifying position
and time dependent generation is given in the Appendix to this example's
description.

The first SEU simulation is performed for a normal particle incidence through
the drain region (along Y direction) with a maximum carrier density generated
of 1.e18 cm-3. The characteristic radius of the track was defined to be 0.05 
micron, the characteristic time of the Gaussian time dependency - 2 ps, and
the time instant of the peak of generation - 4 ps. 

The transient simulation is performed to monitor the effects of SEU
generation. The initial time steps in the solve statements are defined
by the user (eg. 0.05 ps in the first solve statement), while the subsequent
time steps are selected automatically. The simulation is performed up
to 0.1 microsecond of physical time. To analyze the effect of carrier generation
on internal physical distributions, an output structure file 
is saved for the instant of the peak of generation (t=4 ps).

The external terminals transient characteristics are saved in the .log
file. The MOSFET transient response in the form of drain current
transient characteristic is displayed using TonyPlot.

The simulation then proceeds to the second Atlas input file for
simulating oblique particle incidence. This input file contains the
same CONTACT and MODELS definitions as the previous one. The SEU
definition of the particle hitting the device along its longer diagonal
through the drain region (far left top corner) down to the
near right bottom corner of the structure is specified in the SINGLE
statement. All other parameters of the SEU are the same as in the
previous Atlas simulation. The condition of the structure of Vds=5 V is
loaded and the transient response of the SEU is simulated for the second
SEU conditions.

The external terminals transient characteristics are saved in the .log file
, and the structure information is saved in the solution file 
at the peak of generation.

Both drain transient current characteristics corresponding to the different SEU
conditions are then displayed in TonyPlot. The peak of the current associated
with the drift collection is achieved at approximately 6 - 7 ps. Note that 
the peak of generation is taking place at 4 ps. The drift collection continues
for about ~100 ps when the charge in the depletion region is practically 
collected. The peak of the current for the diagonal incidence is calculated to
be slightly higher than for the normal incidence. The decrease in current is
however slower for the normal incidence making the total extracted charge 
greater. 

To load and run this example, select the
{bold} Load example 
button in DeckBuild. This will copy the input file and any support
files to your current working directory. Select the
{bold} run 
button to execute the example.



