
{subsection} radex09.in : Single Event Burnout (SEB) in a High Voltage PiN Diode

Requires: VictoryDevice/SEE
{newline}
Minimum Versions: VictoryDevice 1.10.2.R

This examples demonstrates Single Event Burnout (SEB) in a High Voltage PiN Diode

The structure of the 3D PiN diode is simple enough to be emulated directly in 
the device simulator without the need to resort to a full process simulator.
Further simplification is afforded by the 
{bold} circular symmetry 
of the diode allowing the diode to be simulated in two dimensions with 
cylindrical corrections to correctly predict 3D device characteristics.  For 
the simulation of single events, only a central and vertical strike is a valid
candidate for correctly simulating 3D effects using this 2 dimensional circular
symetry method.  This method is invoked using the
{bold} cylindrical
parameter, on the mesh statement

There are two important requirements for simulating Single Event Burnout (SEB).
Firstly, the device IV characteristics must display a 
{bold} "snapback"
characteristic, where, for at least a range of voltages, there exists two 
possible corresponding stable current conditions, one a low current "off" state
and a second high current "on" state.  At high voltages, the "on" state 
dissipates sufficient power to over heat the device.
 
Secondly, self heating plays a leading role in greatly reducing the current 
density in a PiN diode at which the snapback IV characteristic occurs, allowing
a significantly lower 
{bold} Linear Energy Transfer (LET)
strike to transfer the diode from an "off" state, to a stable "on" state, where
continuous heating eventually burns the device to destruction, hence the name
of the phenomenon, "Single Event Burnout". 

This example, first biases the PiN diode close to it's breakdown voltage of 
{bold} 3,500 volts.
Then a
{bold} LOOP, L.END
statement is used to start the simulation with a strike of 4 MeV-cm2/mg LET.
The LOOP then doubles the LET strike value until the current pulse from the 
strike is sufficient to transfer the IV characteristics to a stable "on" state,
whereupon the device burns out in short order afterwards.

To load and run this example, select the
{bold} Load example 
button in DeckBuild. This will copy the input file and any support
files to your current working directory. Select the
{bold} run 
button to execute the example.
